---
layout: post
title:  "Breaking NLP"
description: "a collection of text that break NLP system"
date:   2018-04-20 14:02:39
categories: nlp
tags: [adversial, nlp]
---

> 他觉得就在刚才他记得昨天下午的聚会她认为自己丑（递归）

> 领导：你这是什么意思？没什么意思。意思意思。（正确理解“意思”）

> 能穿多少穿多少(夏天/冬天)

> 地铁里听到一个女孩大概是给男朋友打电话:“我已经到西直门了，你快出来往地铁站走。如果你到了，我还没到，你就等着吧。如果我到了，你还没到，你就等着吧。”（字面意思和语气）[^1]

> 石室诗士施氏，嗜狮，誓食十狮。氏时时适市视狮。十时，适十狮适市。是时，适施氏适市。施氏视是十狮，恃矢势，使是十狮逝世。氏拾是十狮尸，适石室。石室湿，氏使侍拭石室。石室拭，氏始试食是十狮尸。食时，始识是十狮尸，实十石狮尸。试释是事。[^2]
> - 赵元任

>  狮识豕，豕识狮。始，狮嗜舐豕；豕适。豕时侍狮食柿，狮适。[^3]
> - 隋景芳

> 江州市长江大桥参加了长江大桥的通车仪式

> Buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo

> James while John had had had had had had had had had had had a better effect on the teacher

> Colorless green ideas sleep furiously. [^4]

## Time and Quantity Reasoning[^5]

entailment
  - Like one, two, three, four. 
  - Count from one to four. 


entailment 
  - Of those beginning prenatal care in the first trimester, Indiana mothers rank in the lower third of individuals receiving such care nationwide. 
  - There are Indiana mothers who do not receive prenatal care in the first trimester.  


entailment 
  - Payment of $1,000 (or more) may be made now or at anytime before December 31, 1993. 
  - Payment may be made anytime until December 31.  


entailment 
  - If you'd like to make a donation at a later date, please indicate your pledge on the invoice and return it to us. 
  - We appreciate you indicating your pledged amount on the invoice.  

entailment 
  - The time was 9:38.  
  - The time was before 10:00 

entailment 
  - By 8:33, it had reached its assigned cruising altitude of 31,000 feet.  
  - By 8:33 is was on its delegated cruising altitude of about 30,000 feet. 

entailment 
  - After bloody struggles, the Sunni became (and remain) the majority sect.  
  - The Sunni were not the majority sect before violent conflict took place.  

entailment 
  - The military aide returned a few minutes later, probably between 10:12 and 10:18, and said the aircraft was 60 miles out. 
  - It was thought to be sometime after 10 o'clock that the military aide returned. 

entailment 
  - For a desk dictionary (or college dictionary, as Americans like to call them) it is rather pricey at $36. 
  - Desk dictionaries can be rather expensive.  


entailment 
  - I do not know how he would rate it, but I must confess that for general use I am inclined to put it just a little ahead of Chambers . But I haven't found it quite as much fun to browse in.  
  - I would rate it slightly better than Chambers.  


neutral 
  - The value of the coefficient can vary from zero (if demand is exactly the same every week) to numbers much greater than one for wildly fluctuating weekly demand. 
  - A coefficient can indeed rise up to a hundred for wildly fluctuating weekly demand. 

neutral 
  - A short time later, Nawaf and Salem al Hazmi entered the same checkpoint. 
  - Nawaf and Salem al Hazmi entered the checkpoint ten minutes later.  

contradiction 
  - I think uh-oh 200 pounds of mush going to be laying on the floor, I'll never get him up you know. 
  - There is 100 pounds of mush on the floor and I can't get him up.  

contradiction 
  - At best, experience with different combinations of waist sizes and leg lengths for a given design allows a scheduler to aggregate the units to be made into groups of large and small sizes, which means marker-makers can achieve efficiencies near 90 percent for casual pants. 
  - Makrer-makers can only ever achieve efficiencies of 80 percent for casual pants.  

contradiction 
  - In this chapter, we will concentrate on the past hundred years, outlining major changes in American retail, apparel, and textiles that occurred before the 1980s. 
  - Hundreds of year of history is included in this chapter.  


contradiction 
  - Note that the work in a shirt plant is generally grouped into production lots of 1,500 shirts if the progressive bundle system is used. 
  - The progressive bundle system means work is generally grouped into production lots of 20,000 shirts or more.  

contradiction 
  - At eight or ten stitches an inch, it is possible to seam thirteen to sixteen or more inches a second. 
  - It's impossible to seam more than 13 inches a second. 

contradiction 
  - The Vice Chairman joined the conference shortly before 10:00; the Secretary, shortly before 10:30.  
  - The Secretary joined before the Vice Chairman.  

contradiction 
  - As early as January 1994, Bin Ladin received the surveillance reports, complete with diagrams prepared by the team's computer specialist. 
  - Bin Ladin did not receive any reports until 1996. 

contradiction 
  - The call lasted about two minutes, after which Policastro and a colleague tried unsuccessfully to contact the flight. 
  - The call only lasted 5 seconds before it was dropped. 

contradiction 
  - Hold on a second.  
  - Hold on for a few minutes.  

contradiction 
  - The passengers continued their assault and at 10:02:23, a hijacker said, Pull it down!  
  - The assault by the passengers did not begin until 10:10:00. 

contradiction 
  - Two such hints, however, have only a few possible answers in common, so that the solver can concentrate on them and pick the most probable one. 
  - Each problem only has one possible answer.  

contradiction 
  - It seems unnecessary to point out that Framework cannot have a very sophisticated list of words if it has only 37,000 in its memory, but I thought it might be interesting to see what substitutions were evoked by SUGGEST.  
  - Framework has more than 300,000 words and is quite sophisticated. 


### More

[List_of_linguistic_example_sentences](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_linguistic_example_sentences)

[^1]: http://iiis.tsinghua.edu.cn/~xfcui/intro2cs/slides/03_nlp.pdf
[^2]: https://zh.wikipedia.org/zh-hans/%E6%96%BD%E6%B0%8F%E9%A3%9F%E7%8D%85%E5%8F%B2
[^3]: http://www.djyw.org/user1/90/archives/2010/40298.html
[^4]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colorless_green_ideas_sleep_furiously
[^5]: mismatched annotation from https://repeval2017.github.io/shared/